1. System Requirements
Code tested on:
Microsoft Windows 10, Version 20H2 Build 19042.928, Version 21H2 Build 19044.1586, 
Microsoft Windows 11, Version 21H2 Build 22000.556
Devuan GNU/Linux 4 (chimaera) 5.10.0-13-amd64 (use requirements.txt)

Software dependencies are:
Python v3.8, specific packages are found in environment2.yml

---------------------------------

2. Demo Guide

Step 1. Installation
Install the package dependencies, ideally using conda environment manager, e.g. through the command:
conda env create -f environment2.yml
Install time: ~5 minutes on a regular Windows desktop
If this does not work on your system, or you wish to use Linux, an alternative is to run
pip install -r requirements.txt


Step 2. Data Download
Please download the sample dataset included for this demo from:
https://chalmers-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/hmoberg_chalmers_se/ElpFotTfPNNInU2YghmGN3IBs5cPPgMxjsdPwtsXserlYA?e=53WB9a
And place the folder "Demo Data" in directory NSM-ML/Data/
This data corresponds to the artificial dataset used for Fig. S14, and is ~4.5GB in size.

Step 2. Pre-processing
Run pre-processImages.py. This will pre-process the sample dataset found in Data/Demo Data. and save its results in Data/Preprocessed Sample Data
Run time: ~30 minutes on a regular Windows desktop

Step 3. Analysis
Run PredictDemo.py. This will analyze the pre-processed sample dataset found in Data/Preprocessed Sample Data, and save the resulting figures in Results/.
Run time: ~2-3 minutes on a regular Windows desktop

---------------------------------

3. Demo Explanation

PredictDemo.py contains four separated cells:

The first cell defines the base models used for initial iOC and Diffusivity prediction, as well as the ensemble models for more accurate values. Nothing needs changing here.

The second cell defines user-entered variables, where the user can change "plotImages" to True to view the networks' predictions in the kymographs, and "saveImages" to True to save said images.

The third cell runs and saves the predictions on the supplied sample dataset.

The fourth and final cell plots the results in three figures:

Figure 1: The histogram of predicted iOC values by the ensemble model for each separate trajectory, where the counts of the histogram corresponds to the length (#frames) of said trajectory.
The data-set contains 6 distinct values of iOC, ranging from 0.75 *10^-4 nm (corresponding to roughly 45 kDa in our channels) to 20 *10^-4 nm (corresponding to roughly 1100 kDa), 
and this should be clearly represented in this figure with corresponding gaussian fits for greater clarity. 

Figure 2: Similarly, the histogram of predicted D values by the ensemble model for each separate trajectory. The data-set contains 3 distinct values of D; 10, 20 and 50 μm^2/s,
which is clearly represented in this figure with corresponding gaussian fits for greater clarity. 

Figure 3: Scatter plot of iOC vs D values. It should be clear that, apart from some outliers, there are exactly 18 clusters corresponding to the 18 permutations of the 6 iOC values and 3 D values in the dataset.

---------------------------------

4. Further Software

Predict.py contains the basic prediction script used in our lab for quick real-time analysis. For optimal results, an ensemble of models should be selected and fine-tuned
for the particular D/iOC values and noise parameters relevant in any given problem, as was for instance the case for exosome analysis. The YOLO
should also be trained and used if the segmentations are imperfect (i.e. if the noise is only partially corrected for). 






